Latest ReviewsDell's UltraSharp U4919DW is a 49-inch monitor with a 5120 x 1440 resolution, giving it a 32:9 aspect ratio. This display is equivalent to two 27-inch 1440p displays side by side without a bezel in-between. So if you were planning to run with a dual-screen 1440p setup, something like the U4919DW might be a better choice.During this year's GDC, Nvidia announced that GTX graphics cards would be getting basic ray tracing support with a driver update. For putting together this test we took the most powerful Pascal GPU we had on hand - the Nvidia Titan X - and pitted it against Nvidia's RTX line-up in the three games that support ray tracing thus far.Intel's been having some trouble competing with the wave of Ryzen processors, forcing the chip maker to be a little more creative. Today we have the Intel Core i5-9400F on hand, which is basically a refreshed i5-8400 with a 100 MHz clock speed boost, no integrated graphics and a lower price point.When we recently updated our Best CPUs feature, we noticed that access to affordable first-gen Ryzen processors remains an attractive option for many. The Ryzen 7 1700 is a standout option for an 8-core/16-thread part selling for $160, meaning you can either buy the R7 1700 or the R5 2600 at the same price.It's hard to say how Fortnite is turning out because it keeps turning into something else. Skins and storylines come and go. Landmarks appear and disappear. Weapons are added and removed. Recently, a mysterious excavation site appeared, but it was dug up and abandoned by the time I got there the next day. There's never a perfect time to say what Fortnite is.Recently we've looked back at the GeForce GTX 980 Ti and the GTX 960, both popular GPUs from yesteryear. Those features have been warmly welcomed, but besides the overall positive responses what we noticed in common in your feedback was the request to test the GeForce GTX 970, which was the performance/value offering of the time and a GPU some of you are still rocking in today's games with some success.When we recently tested the new GeForce GTX 1660 we noted that Nvidia was making a bold claim in the review guide saying that the 1660 was a whopping 113% faster than the GTX 960, making it a perfect upgrade option for owners of the old mid-range Maxwell GPU.Today we're taking a look at another gaming laptop, the brand new Alienware m15, which is the company's portable laptop offering to rival systems like the MSI GS65 Stealth, Gigabyte Aero 15 and Razer Blade. Historically we haven't been huge fans of Alienware's chunkier laptop designs, but the m15 is one of the best we've seen from the company so far.In Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, the thread between life and death is tenuous. As the One-Armed Wolf, a loyal shinobi seeking to save a young noble with a cursed bloodline, you traverse a feudal Japan so saturated with the remnants of war that the idea of mortality becomes fickle.To say there are a ton of laptops out there is an understatement. As is the case with smartphones, within a given segment or budget often there isn't much that differentiates them---other than components and small design changes. But with Asus' latest ZenBook Pro, there's one element that really makes it stand out from the crowd: a touchpad that's also a touchscreen.The Asrock DeskMini A300 is a tiny PC that takes advantage of Ryzen processors. Almost every custom designed mini PC that we've seen to date has used Intel inside and while Intel CPUs are very good, they aren't the best choice for this kind of system. At least if you want to game or do any kind of 3D work, for that AMD's Ryzen APUs are unrivaled.This is our second look at the new GeForce GTX 1660. Not to be confused with the 1660 Ti that was released a month earlier, both GPUs offer great value at mid-range prices of $220 for the GTX 1660 and $280 for the Ti version.The latest member of the Turing GTX family is making its debut in the form of the Nvidia GeForce GTX 1660. An anticipated release after the launch of the GTX 1660 Ti, which proved to be a great buy, now the vanilla GTX 1660 has been set at $220 and it looks to provide great value for your money.Today we're revisiting the GeForce GTX 980 Ti to see how it stacks up to the newly released RTX 2060 and GTX 1660 Ti, particularly in more recent titles such as Apex Legends, Resident Evil 2 and Far Cry New Dawn. The GTX 980 Ti is now four years old, so you'd expect new GPUs around half the price to deliver a similar level of performance... or do they?The Asus ROG Strix Scar II GL504GV is a fine laptop with a good design, a good trackpad and keyboard, and generous I/O. It's not overly portable, it's not overly chunky. It's got a pretty good display, upgradeability options, and the internal hardware and performance is good, too.Apex Legends is a tasting menu of battle royale moments, rather than the potato chip jump-die-restart of my Fortnite experiences. There are countless moments to surprise or disappoint yourself. The hero aspect of the game is a change for battle royales, but other than that, the basics are standard for the genre.Every once in a while, a game comes along that that does something surprising, different, memorable. Anthem is not one of those games. Anthem's core idea of "jetpacks plus guns" works excellently on its own, but nothing else in the game quite lives up to it.We're following up to our GeForce GTX 1660 Ti review with an even more ample 33 game benchmark test. The day-one review looked at more recent games such as Resident Evil 2, Metro Exodus, Apex Legends, and many others. Now we're keen to see how the 1660 Ti stacks up in a much wider range of games.Today we are reviewing the Gigabyte Aero 15 X9, the first Nvidia RTX laptop we tested and used for our RTX 2070 Max-Q feature earlier this month. It's a cool gaming laptop, pretty similar to the Aero 15X v8 we looked at last year, but with a few upgrades that we'll walk you through here.Nvidia's latest attempt to excite gamers arrives in the form of a new mid-range GPU with no RTX features on board. The new GeForce GTX 1660 Ti comes as no surprise as it's been widely rumored for some time: a cut down Turing GPU that trims off the fat and offers better value for less than $300.The GeForce RTX 2060 offers a middle ground for great performance at a price that remains within reach of most enthusiasts. If you're convinced this is the best GPU for you, you will still have to choose among dozens of different models. Here come our picks.Metro Exodus is about to receive our usual GPU benchmark treatment with 36 graphics cards on the bench getting a full performance comparison. The game has generally been well received although it's been out for just a few days.Nvidia unveiled RTX laptops early 2019 and the first models sporting the GPUs are making it to market just now. Today we're checking out Nvidia's new GeForce RTX GPUs for laptops, starting with the RTX 2070 Max-Q variant, thanks to Gigabyte who sent in their latest Aero 15 X9 for testing.Following up to our best value FreeSync monitors feature, we though this review would be ideal. Today we're looking at the Viotek GFT27DB which is a brand new display release, sporting a new TN panel (ideal for gamers) that promises a lot on paper. Having reviewed several Viotek displays in the last year, we've been consistently impressed with the value proposition, so we are hoping nothing changes here in that respect.The Radeon VII is AMD's latest GPU offering aimed at gamers. CEO Lisa Su has stated that the Radeon VII performs competitively with Nvidia's RTX 2080 and as such will go for the same $700. It's believed AMD's not turning a profit on these things, even at this price. But is it any good?It's time for another mega benchmark and the subject of today's GPU onslaught is Resident Evil 2. A classic survival horror game developed and published by Capcom that it's also a remake of the original Resident Evil 2 released for the PlayStation way back in 1998.